p8105_hw1_yw3996.md, before:

p8105_hw1_yw3996
================
Yiying Wu

# Problem 1

Load the moderndive library:

``` r
library("moderndive")
```

load the early_january_weather dataset:

``` r
data("early_january_weather")
```

Here’s a short description of the dataset:

-   the variables in this dataset includes origin (EWR), year (2013),
    month (Jan), day (ranges from 1 to 15), hour, temp, dewp, humid,
    wind_dir, wind_speed, wind_gust, precip, pressure, visib, and the
    time_hour. <span style="color: red;">**needs to be
    clarified**</span>
-   The dataset contains 358 records on the weather in early January and
    15 variables.
-   The mean temperature is 39.58.

Make a scatterplot of temp (y) vs time_hour (x); color points using the
humid variable (by adding color = … inside of aes in the ggplot code).

``` r
ggplot(early_january_weather, aes(x = time_hour, y = temp, color = humid)) + 
  geom_point()
```

![](p8105_hw1_yw3996_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-3-1.png)<!-- -->
Here’s a description of the plot:

As time went by, the temperature had an increase tendency, the humidity
also increased during Jan, 2013.

Export the scatterplot to the project directory using ggsave.

``` r
ggsave("p8105_hw1p1_scatterplot.pdf")
```

    ## Saving 7 x 5 in image

# Problem 2

The following code creates a data frame (**prb2_df**) comprised of:

-   `samp`: a random sample of size 10 from a standard Normal
    distribution
-   `samp_pos`: a logical vector indicating whether elements of the
    sample are greater than 0
-   `char_vec`: a character vector of length 10
-   `factor_vec`: a factor vector of length 10, with 3 different factor
    “levels”

``` r
prb2_df <- tibble(
  samp = rnorm(10),
  samp_pos = samp > 0,
  char_vec = c("a", "b", "c", "d", "e", "f", "g", "h", "i", "j"),
  factor_vec = factor(c("low", "low", "low", "medium", "medium", "medium", "high", "high", "high", "high"))
)
```

Take the mean of each variable in the dataframe.

``` r
mean(pull(prb2_df,samp))
```

    ## [1] -0.08590475

``` r
mean(pull(prb2_df,samp_pos))
```

    ## [1] 0.4

``` r
mean(pull(prb2_df,char_vec))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(prb2_df, char_vec)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

``` r
mean(pull(prb2_df,factor_vec))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(prb2_df, factor_vec)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

The numeric and logical variables (`samp` & `samp_pos`) work while the
character and factor variables (`char_vec` & `factor_vec`) don’t

Commit message:

applies the as.numeric function to the logical, character, and factor variables
explain why the mean works for logical variables but doesn't work for character, and factor variables

p8105_hw1_yw3996.md, after:

p8105_hw1_yw3996
================
Yiying Wu

# Problem 1

Load the moderndive library:

``` r
library("moderndive")
```

load the early_january_weather dataset:

``` r
data("early_january_weather")
```

Here’s a short description of the dataset:

-   the variables in this dataset includes origin (EWR), year (2013),
    month (Jan), day (ranges from 1 to 15), hour, temp, dewp, humid,
    wind_dir, wind_speed, wind_gust, precip, pressure, visib, and the
    time_hour.
-   The dataset contains 358 records on the weather in early January and
    15 variables.
-   The mean temperature is 39.58.

Make a scatterplot of temp (y) vs time_hour (x); color points using the
humid variable (by adding color = … inside of aes in the ggplot code).

``` r
ggplot(early_january_weather, aes(x = time_hour, y = temp, color = humid)) + 
  geom_point()
```

![](p8105_hw1_yw3996_files/figure-gfm/scatterplot-1.png)<!-- --> Here’s
a description of the plot:

As time went by, the temperature had an increase tendency, the humidity
also increased during Jan, 2013.

Export the scatterplot to the project directory using ggsave.

``` r
ggsave("p8105_hw1p1_scatterplot.pdf")
```

    ## Saving 7 x 5 in image

# Problem 2

The following code creates a data frame (`prb2_df`) comprised of:

-   `samp`: a random sample of size 10 from a standard Normal
    distribution
-   `samp_pos`: a logical vector indicating whether elements of the
    sample are greater than 0
-   `char_vec`: a character vector of length 10
-   `factor_vec`: a factor vector of length 10, with 3 different factor
    “levels”

``` r
prb2_df <- tibble(
  samp = rnorm(10),
  samp_pos = samp > 0,
  char_vec = c("a", "b", "c", "d", "e", "f", "g", "h", "i", "j"),
  factor_vec = factor(c("low", "low", "low", "medium", "medium", "medium", "high", "high", "high", "high"))
)
```

Take the mean of each variable in the dataframe.

``` r
mean(pull(prb2_df,samp))
```

    ## [1] 0.3234441

``` r
mean(pull(prb2_df,samp_pos))
```

    ## [1] 0.7

``` r
mean(pull(prb2_df,char_vec))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(prb2_df, char_vec)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

``` r
mean(pull(prb2_df,factor_vec))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(prb2_df, factor_vec)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

The numeric and logical variables (`samp` & `samp_pos`) work while the
character and factor variables (`char_vec` & `factor_vec`) don’t.

Here’s a code chunk that applies the as.numeric function to the logical,
character, and factor variables

``` r
as.numeric(pull(prb2_df,samp_pos))
as.numeric(pull(prb2_df,char_vec))
as.numeric(pull(prb2_df,factor_vec))
```

-   For logical variables, they are converted to number 1 and 0.
    Therefore, the mean can be calculated.
-   For character variables, they are converted to NA, which means they
    can’t be recognized as numbers. Therefore, it is impossible to
    calculate the mean.
-   For factor variables, they are converted to 1, 2, 3 according to the
    alphabetical order of the original factors (1 for “high”, 2 for
    “low”, and 3 for “medium”). However, these numbers make no sense
    because they fail to reflect the correct order of levels. Therefore,
    the mean of factor variables shouldn’t be calculated because it can
    be very misleading.
